# GutMircobiome_WomenHealth
Disentangling the age-dependent manner in the associations between gut microbiome and women’s health: a multi-cohort microbiome study
The global focus on women's health has evolved to comprehensive strategies that require equitable resource allocation and targeted life-course approaches. Gut microbiota plays crucial roles in women's health, and understanding its temporal dynamics and how age influences disease-gut microbiota associations is essential for personalized healthcare. Through analyzing metagenomic data from 3644 healthy women, we revealed significant impacts of age on gut microbiota, and age-dependent patterns in microbial features such as relative abundance distribution, Shannon index, and microbial network properties. Additionally, declining trends in the predictive accuracy of gut microbiota for age groups were shown using iterative sub-sampling based random forest (ISSRF) model. Age-specific species markers were also identified, many of which were shared across age groups. To investigate the influence of age on disease-gut microbiota associations, metagenomic data from 1173 women with various diseases and matched healthy controls were collected. Substantial proportion of species markers for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ACVD), and impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) differed in relative abundance across age groups and were also age-specific species markers. Besides, microbiota-based probability of IBD and ACVD were positively correlated with age. Furthermore, age specificity of disease-gut microbiota associations was explored using ISSRF model. Associations between IBD and gut microbiota were age-specific, with reduced stability of disease-specific species in childhood and adolescence, possibly due to decrease in effect size between patients and controls. Our findings provided valuable insights for promoting healthy aging and developing personalized interventions and treatment strategies for women.
